L ◾ CTF - exercise rule (#10058)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-encourage-daily-exercise-at-work/rule.md

A healthy team is more energized, happy, and productive, and a culture to encourage this should come from the top.

> Sedentary lifestyle is a major health risk (TODO add source), leading to fatigue, poor posture, and reduced productivity.
> 
> Sedentary lifestyle and health risks
> Summary of abstract for this article <https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7700832/>
> 
> Around one-third of the global population over 15 years old does insufficient physical activity, contributing to health risks, while sedentary lifestyles—averaging 7.7 to 8.3 hours daily—spread due to factors like office work and screen time, leading to metabolic, cardiovascular, and cognitive issues. Reducing sedentary behavior and increasing physical activity are crucial to mitigating these risks, including obesity, diabetes, cancer, and mental health disorders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Research has increasingly linked sedentary behaviour to negative health outcomes, both physically and cognitively. 

[According to researches](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7700832), around one-third of the global population over 15 years old does insufficient physical activity, contributing to health risks, while sedentary lifestyles—averaging 7.7 to 8.3 hours daily—spread due to factors like office work and screen time, leading to metabolic, cardiovascular, and cognitive issues. Reducing sedentary behaviour and increasing physical activity are crucial to mitigating these risks, including obesity, diabetes, cancer, and mental health disorders.
```

> Importance of physical activity for brain health.
> <https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17518420801997007>
> 
> Regular physical activity significantly reduces the risk of subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and related functional limitations, with active adults showing lower prevalence rates (8.8%) compared to inactive individuals (15.7%), emphasizing its protective role in maintaining cognitive health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Another study](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17518420801997007), among many others, demonstrated that regular physical activity significantly reduces the risk of subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and related functional limitations, with active adults showing lower prevalence rates (8.8%) compared to inactive individuals (15.7%), emphasizing its protective role in maintaining cognitive health.
```

The best time for this is generally just before lunch, so as not to be too disruptive. It's a good idea to allocate an Exercise Master to help initiate this and encourage people to join.

If it really takes off, potentially get some basic equipment in like kettlebells or yoga mats, to give people more options.

### Turn fitness into numbers

What's more of an accomplishment - 'I ran for 30 minutes', or 'I did a 5k in 20 minutes'?

For most people, the latter is better because it has a specific definition, and gives a goal to work towards.

You can get a similar target with steps/day (e.g. 5,000) that you can measure yourself and push against.

To measure yourself, you need a tool to do it. The most common are fitness bands, smartphones, and fitness rings.

* Have a company program to get a **fitness band**
  -

* Use a **mobile app** to:
  * Track steps and heart rate
  * Create weekly team challenges
  * Share leaderboards or step goals in Teams channels
* If budget is limited, start by having a shared office band and rotate it each day.

> Bonus: Use the app’s scan feature to quickly pair the band with a new user.

(insert screenshot of rewards)

> ### Make it simple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 🏃‍♂️‍➡️ Make it simple
```

All it takes is 15–20 minutes a day. Here are some practical ways to make it happen:

* Quick activities like:
  * Planking
  * Push-ups
  * Light stretching or yoga
  * Brisk walking outdoors (bonus: natural sunlight = Vitamin D)
* Consider doing this just before lunch for minimal disruption.
* Assign an **Exercise Master** to initiate the sessions and rally participation.

::: greybox
At SSW, the team stops around 11:45 am for group planks, push-ups, or outdoor walks. It's a fun, regular part of the culture.
:::
::: good  
Figure: Good Example – Encourages team bonding and boosts energy before lunch  
:::

> ### Integrate movement into meetings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 🏋️‍♂️ Integrate movement into meetings
```

Encourage short bursts of activity throughout the day:

> * Start stand-ups or Zoom calls with 10 pushups or squats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Start stand-ups or team calls with 10 pushups or squats.
```

* Take walking meetings when discussing non-technical topics.

Even small efforts can improve circulation and mental sharpness before diving into focused work.

> ### Reward consistency and track it in reviews

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 🥇 Reward consistency and track it in reviews
```

Build a long-term culture of health by recognizing ongoing effort:

* At annual reviews, record each person's **average daily steps** as part of their personal goals and KPIs.
* Reward those who hit their monthly movement targets with small perks (e.g. lunch voucher, massage chair time).

This adds accountability and reinforces that physical wellbeing is valued just as much as professional output.

> ### Optional upgrades as the habit grows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 🏓 Optional upgrades as the habit grows
```

Once the culture is embedded, consider investing in:

* Yoga mats
* Kettlebells
* Standing desks or under-desk treadmills

Even if not everyone participates every day, just seeing others move can act as a positive nudge.

> > Need more evidence? Check out [Harvard Business Review’s breakdown](https://hbr.org/2015/10/exercise-makes-you-smarter-and-more-productive) on how exercise boosts cognitive performance and productivity.

Reviewer: This article doesn't exists. I found another one.

```suggestion
> Need more evidence? Check out [Harvard Business Review’s breakdown](https://www.health.harvard.edu/mind-and-mood/exercise-can-boost-your-memory-and-thinking-skills) on how can boost your memory and thinking skills.
```

---

> A daily 15-minute fitness break isn’t just about health—it’s about building a culture that values energy, happiness, and sustainable productivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A daily 15-minute fitness break isn’t just about health — it’s about building a culture that values energy, happiness, and sustainable productivity.
```
